# **Twitter semantic search based on distributional semantics**

Written text most often than not provides Syntagmatic relations that help establish the usual meaning of the sentence in terms of its syntactic structure. There are exceptions -as in our project- where extracting this structure is particularly har. On the other hand, Syntagmatic characteristics have been widely exploited by different Natural Language Processing techniques to advance the understanding, and use of computational linguistics. However as described in [this paper](http://www.lt.informatik.tu-darmstadt.de/fileadmin/user_upload/Group_UKP/publikationen/2013/BiemannRiedlText2D_JLM2013_60-369-1-PB.pdf), the way we read and write does not encode only that information. It encodes also the paradigmatic relations that exist in the common use of language, that give rise to associations denoting semantic constraints of language significance. This information can be used to build a Distributional Thesaurus, that express not only the syntagmatic relations, but the paradigmatic relations as well, thus giving the ability to interpret a word in different ways depending its context, and the contexts it has been observed in before.

We aim to use the above mentioned in our project as the foundation to develop a different approach to execute semantic search on Twitter. Our project uses [JoBimText](http://maggie.lt.informatik.tu-darmstadt.de/jobimtext/) to create a distributional thesaurus using the TREC 2012 Micro-Blogging dataset as a corpus. JoBimText offers an unsupervised method to calculate distributional similarities, and thus create distributional thesaurus for large datasets based on UIMA and Hadoop. Using this thesaurus we plan to generate  query expansions that could yield better results compared to keyword search or other semantic search approaches to this problem.
